Problem statement

SIM activation portal is required for automating the SIM activation process for the customers.

While purchasing the SIM, customer has to provide customer details such as first name, last name, email, dob etc., along with ID proof to the provider. Customer gets a starter SIM kit with SIM details. Customer can activate the SIM through this portal by providing the SIM number which is present in the starter kit along with service number(mobile number).

SIM activation process involves following functionalities.

    SIM validation

    Show special offers

    Customer validation based on email and date of birth

    Validate Customer details using first name, last name and email

    Update address details

    Customer ID proof validation

Please follow the steps mentioned in Software and Project setup section below before you start implementing this application.
Software and Project setup

Software Requirement:

    Spring Tool Suite(STS): STS is an Eclipse based IDE for Spring based application development.

    Installation steps:

    Refer to the given link to download Spring Tool Suite(STS)

    Search for Spring Tool Suite in the search bar as highlighted

    Install the Windows 64-bit/32-bit version based on your machine configuration

 

    MySQL database : Download MySQL database

     Note:  You can choose any relational database of your choice. 

    SoapUI: It is a popular tool to send different HTTP requests to the RESTful web services.

     Installation steps:

    Refer to the given link to download SoapUI

    Search for SoapUI in the search bar as highlighted

    Install the Windows 64-bit/32-bit version based on your machine configuration

 
Project Setup

    MySQL Database setup

    Open the command prompt and navigate to the folder which has MySQL server bin folder.

    Enter the command mysqld.exe to start the MySQL Server

    Once MySQL server is started, type the command mysql.exe –u root –p and key in the MySQL password to establish the connection with the database.

Your database is now ready to use. Make sure your MySQL server instance is open while running your application
Project Implementation

Database Design:  Application schema and tables

Note: You can ignore create table command if your application is configured to auto create tables using Hibernate/JPA properties.

    Create a schema SimPortal in the MySQL database

    Create SimDetails table with sample data

simId 	serviceNumber 	simNumber 	simStatus
1 	1234567891 	1234567891234 	active
2 	1234567892 	1234567891235 	inactive

 

    Create SimOffers table with sample data

offerId 	callQty 	cost 	dataQty 	duration 	offerName 	simId
1 	100 	100 	120 	10 	Free calls and data 	1
2 	150 	50 	100 	15 	Free calls 	2

 

    Create CustomerAddress table with sample data

 
addressId 	address 	city 	pincode 	state
1 	Jayanagar 	Bangalore 	560041 	Karnataka
2 	Vijaynagar 	Mysore 	567017 	Karna

 

    Create Customer table with sample data

uniqueIdNumber 	dateOfBirth 	emailAddress 	firstName 	lastName 	idType 	customerAddress_addressId 	simId 	state
1234567891234567 	1990-12-12 	smith@abc.com 	Smith 	John 	Aadhar 	1 	1 	Karnataka
1234567891234568 	1998-12-12 	bob@abc.com 	Bob 	Sam 	Aadhar 	2 	2 	Karnataka

 

    Create CustomerIdentity table with sample data

uniqueIdNumber 	dateOfbirth 	firstName 	lastName 	emailAddress 	state
1234567891234567 	1990-12-12 	Smith 	John 	smith@abc.com 	Karnataka
1234567891234568 	1998-12-12 	Bob 	Sam 	bob@abc.com 	Karnataka

 
Project Backend Implementation Details

 

Application flow with functionality:

    SIM Details:  Customer has to enter the SIM number present in the SIM starter kit and Service number (mobile number), so that provider can validate the SIM and Service number. Once details are validated, customer should be able to see the available offers for the provided SIM details.

Acceptance Criteria:

    SIM number should be 13-digit numeric value

    Service number should be 10-digit numeric value

    Verify the values for invalid SIM/Service details, if the provided SIM/Service number is invalid display "Invalid details, please check again SIM number/Service number!"

    Verify SIM already activated, if the provided SIM is already activated display "SIM already active"   

REST endpoint:

    Create a REST endpoint to do SIM validation

    This is a POST request accepting SIM number and Service number. Verify that combination of SIM number and Service number are correct. On successful validation, respective sim offer details has to be returned. On failure, return the response with customized error messages.

    Test the application through SoapUI:

    Customer Basics Details: Assuming that while purchasing the SIM, email and date of birth(dob) details are submitted by the customer. Now to activate the SIM, as part of verification process, customer has to provide email and dob details for validation. These details are validated against stored data and for invalid details display custom error message.

     Acceptance Criteria:

    Both email and dob are mandatory fields, if not present then display "Email/dob value is required"

    dob should be in yyyy-mm-dd format

    Email should contain one '@' symbol followed with that one dot(.) then it should accept only 2 or 3 characters. If invalid then display "Invalid email"

    If the provided email and dob does not exist then display "No request placed for you." otherwise return success

REST endpoint:

    Create a REST endpoint to validate customer basic details against stored data

    This is a POST request accepting email and dob details, verify that these details are correct against stored data and respond appropriate error messages in case of incorrect values.

    Test the application through SoapUI

    Customer Personal Details:  As a customer, provide personal details such as first name, last name and confirm email for customer personal details validation.Here confirm email acts like OTP to validate the stored customer data. Retrieve customer record based on first name and last name, validate entered confirm email with stored email id, if matching return success otherwise return custom error message.

     Acceptance Criteria:

    Firstname and last name should accept only alphabets, the maximum length is 15. For incorrect value display "Firstname/Lastname should be maximum of 15 characters"                               

    Validate First name and last name with the existing details if not matching display "No customer found for the provided details"    

     Verify that error message “Invalid email details!!” is displayed if both email and confirm email are not matching.                                                               

REST endpoint:

    This is a POST request which accepts the first name, last name and confirm email. Verify that provided details are correct, respond appropriate error messages in case of incorrect values otherwise get customer data based on provided first and last name, compare stored email with provided confirm email value. If valid, return success otherwise appropriate error message.

    Test the application through SoapUI

    Update Customer Address: Assuming that while purchasing the SIM, communication address has been submitted. Now customer should be able to update the address if required for further communication.

     Acceptance Criteria:

    Address length should be maximum of 25 characters otherwise display "Address should be maximum of 25 characters"                                                    

    Verify that PIN code is 6-digit number. For incorrect value, display "Pin should be 6 digit number"

    City and state should not contain any special characters except space. For incorrect value, display "City/State should not contain any special characters except space"

REST endpoint:

    This is a PUT request which accepts address details

    Update new address if details already present otherwise add address and respond with updated address

 

Note: Verify new address update in CustomerAddress table

    Customer ID Proof Validation: Customer should provide valid government identify proof(Example: Aadhar id, passport etc). Here you can consider Aadhar card for Id proof check.

Acceptance Criteria:

    Enter Aadhar unique number which is present in the given id, it should be 16 digit otherwise display "Id should be 16 digit"

    Enter first name, last name, it should be match with stored Id proof values and also match with the previously provided first name and last name. For incorrect values display "Invalid details"

    Enter date of birth in yyyy-mm-dd format and it should match previously provided dob. For incorrect values, display "Incorrect date of birth details"

    All inputs are mandatory fields. If all the details are valid then proceed with activating the SIM status

REST endpoint:

    This is a POST request which accepts Id proof details, verify values and respond customized error messages for incorrect values

    Verify that entered values are matching with the stored data, if matching respond success and change the status of SIM in SimDetails table from “inactive” to “active” otherwise respond with appropriate message.

 
Running the Backend application

Test the REST endpoints of the application using SoapUI to ensure that all services are working fine
Instructions for Evaluation

Refer to below rubric for getting the project evaluated by your SMEs from project or account

Assessment rubric
Component 	Marks
Application configuration and Implementation of Rest services 	30
Exception Handling 	10
Coding standards and best practices of Rest URI 	5
Code Quality 	5
Total 	50

 